according to Chinese legend a magical
turtle once emerged from a river with
this special arrangement of dots and
lines on its shell there is a secret
mathematical property to this pattern if
we count the number of dots in each
group we can write the numbers in an
array now if we add up the numbers in
the first row they add up to 15
the same goes if we add up the numbers
in the second row or the third row in
fact if you add up the numbers in any of
the columns they also add up to 15 and
the same goes if you add up the numbers
in either of the diagonals this is a
Magic Square
it's also known as a low Xu Square this
pattern also holds a very special
property which the ancient Chinese
discovered hi this is presto Walker in
this video I'm going to show you how you
can make a nine by nine Magic Square
using the low Xu technique we'll
illustrate the method to create a 3x3
Magic Square the first step is to write
the numbers in ascending order starting
from the column on the right now rotate
the numbers 45 degrees counterclockwise
to make a diamond shape the third step
is to swap the numbers that are in the
corners of this diamond so the numbers 1
& 9 are in the corners we'll go ahead
and swap them we'll also swap the
numbers 7 & 3 which are in the corners
the final step is to compress these
numbers back into a square so we'll
bring the 3 & 7 in and we'll bring the 9
and 1 in and this is a Magic Square
that's 3 by 3 all of the numbers add up
to 15 in each row and each column and
the diagonals just because this method
will be important we'll go through the
steps one more time
you write the numbers one through nine
in order then you rotate the numbers to
create a pyramid shape slop the numbers
in the corners and finally compress the
numbers back into a square so we can use
this technique to build a nine by nine
square how do we do that the first step
is to write the numbers 1 to 81 in each
column we're going to write nine numbers
in increasing order now we will focus on
the numbers only in the first row there
are a total of nine numbers here and now
we can use the low Xu technique to
create a 3x3 Magic Square from these
nine numbers so let's go ahead and do
that we'll write the numbers in
increasing order starting from the
column on the right then we will rotate
these numbers 45 degrees
counterclockwise to create a diamond
shape we'll swap the numbers in the
corners and finally we'll compress this
back into a square and this is a magic
square that involves the numbers from
the first row the next step is to repeat
the exact same process for the numbers
in the second row so we could write out
these numbers in ascending order
starting from the column on the right
rotate them swap the corner elements and
put them back into a square but there's
a nice trick we can use that's a
shortcut notice that all of the numbers
in the second row are exactly one more
than the numbers in the first row so 74
is one more than 73 65 is one more than
64 and so on so how can we create a
magic square from the numbers in the
second row well the trick we can use is
we can simply add
to all of the numbers in the magic
square we've just created because we're
adding one to each element this will
still create a magic square the sum will
just be three more in each row so this
will be a magic square that involves all
the numbers from the second row and you
can see where this is going
we can actually create 3x3 magic squares
for every single row for the numbers 1
through 9 so I'm not going to do that
right now that'll be too many numbers to
put on the screen but just keep in mind
we can do that and we're going that's
how you can use the low Xu method to
create 3x3 magic squares of every single
one of these nine rows
once you create these 3 by 3 squares the
question is how are you going to
position them to create a nine by nine
magic square so the next step is to
position these three by three squares so
notice in the original Magic Square we
have the numbers 1 through 9 and there
are nine rows that we want to put 3x3
grids so we look where the one is this
Magic Square that we've created has one
and the one in the original Magic Square
is in the last row in the second column
so we're going to delete that one and
put this entire Magic Square this 3x3
Magic Square in that position we're
going to repeat this for the number two
so the number two is in the upper right
corner of the original Magic Square so
we're going to delete that element and
now we need to put in the 3x3 Magic
Square that involves the number two we
obtain that by adding one to every
single number of the 3x3 Magic Square
that involves 1 we then repeat the
process for the number 3 the number 3 is
in the second row in the first column we
delete it and now we create a 3x3 Magic
Square involving the number 3 which we
obtained by adding 1
to each of the elements of the 3x3 magic
square involving the number two so this
is kind of a recursive method to create
a nine by nine magic square and now we
repeat this process for the numbers four
five six seven eight and nine so I'll go
ahead and skip all these steps and this
is the result you get this is a nine by
nine Magic Square which is built up from
small 3x3 magic squares that we started
out using the low Xu technique and each
of these 3x3 magic squares is a magic
square itself and I put in bold where
the numbers are so we have 4 9 2 3 5 7 8
1 & 6 and those come from the original
Magic Square which was on the our
magical turtle now the amazing thing is
that this 9 by 9 arrangement of numbers
every single row column and diagonal
adds up to 369 and this is absolutely
amazing to do this by chance would be
astronomically low the odds of it are
just so low so this is a really
interesting way that they came up to
develop a 9 by 9 magic square using the
low Xu technique it's a very clever
algorithm and it builds up from the
original 3x3 magic square to make a nine
by nine magic square the best part is
that the steps of the through each
process were easy to remember so it's
something you could reconstruct any time
and it's really amazing that the ancient
Chinese were able to come up with this
method thank you for watching I hope you
liked this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions you can also follow mind
your decisions on Facebook Google+ and
patreon you can catch me at pressure
Locker on Twitter Instagram Tumblr and
Pinterest and please check out my books
there's a link in the
description I write books with about
math puzzles and different mathematical
topics and I think you'll really enjoy
them